---
title: Release v0.8.0
date: 2023-10-12
description: >
  Release Notes Confidential Containers v0.8.0
---

TODO: Update this in the date section: Release Date: Nov TBD, 2023!

Please see the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) for details on how to try out Confidential
Containers.

Please refer to our [Acronyms](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Acronyms)
and [Glossary](https://github.com/confidential-containers/documentation/wiki/Glossary) pages for a
definition of the acronyms used in this document.

## What's new

* Confidential Data Hub (CDH) allows users to do in-TEE secret processing.
  * Supports sealed Kubernetes secrets that can be decrypted by KMS or stored in KBS
* Support added for multi-KBS model, where one KBS validates evidence using Attestation Service while another provides resource.
* Enable pulling container images on host which enables image sharing between multiple pods.
* Upstream containerd now shipped in this release, with exceptions of the following projects:
  * Enclave-cc
  * TBD

## Hardware Support

Confidential Containers is tested with attestation on the following platforms:

* Intel TDX
* AMD SEV(-ES)
* Intel SGX

The following platforms are untested or partially supported:

* IBM Secure Execution (SE) on IBM zSystems (s390x) running LinuxONE
* AMD SEV-SNP

The following platforms are in development:

* ARM CCA (TODO: Find out what is the status of this?)

## Limitations

The following are known limitations of this release:

* Platform support is rapidly changing
  * Image signature validation with AMD SEV-ES is not covered by CI.
* SELinux is not supported on the host and must be set to permissive if in use.
* The generic KBS does not yet supported all platforms.
* The format of encrypted container images is still subject to change
  * The [oci-crypt](https://github.com/containers/ocicrypt) container image format itself may still change
  * The tools to generate images are not in their final form
  * The image format itself is subject to change in upcoming releases
  * Not all image repositories support encrypted container images.
* CoCo currently requires a custom build of `containerd`, which is installed by the operator.
  * Codepath for pulling images will change significantly in future releases.
  * `crio` is only supported with `cloud-api-adaptor`.
* Complete integration with Kubernetes is still in progress.
  * OpenShift support is not yet complete.
  * Existing APIs do not fully support the CoCo security and threat model. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/53)
  * Some commands accessing confidential data, such as `kubectl exec`, may either fail to work, or incorrectly expose information to the host
  * Container images must be downloaded separately (inside guest) for each pod. [More info](https://github.com/confidential-containers/community/issues/66)
* The CoCo community aspires to adopting open source security best practices, but not all practices are adopted yet.
  * We track our status with the OpenSSF Best Practices Badge, which improved to 69% at the time of this release.
  * Vulnerability reporting mechanisms still need to be created. Public github issues are still appropriate for this release until private reporting is established.

## CVE Fixes

None
